story recapped here today i'm going to
explain a drama
romance thriller and science fiction
film called z for zachariah
spoilers ahead watch out and take care
and burden
resides in a post-apocalyptic world as
most of the world's resources are lost
to radiation
her only companion is her dog pharaoh
and they spend all their time together
on her family's farm
she leads a very routine life mostly
gathering food and setting traps for
stray animals
one day she comes across a wagon on an
old road
curious about its contents and pharaoh
hear distant footsteps
so they hide by the road and see a
person in a hazmat suit
they secretly follow him until he
finally reveals himself
inside the suit is another survivor
named john loomis
who is an engineer after assuring that
the area is free from radioactive air
he removes his suit and exalts in joy
for finally breathing fresh air
ant and pharaoh follow him to a nearby
waterfall where john baits himself
knowing that the water is contaminated
and instructs him to get out of the
water
but john is shocked to see her instead
he points a gun at her and fires it
elsewhere
thinking that she does not come in peace
finally john listens to anna and gets
out of the water
the water sickens him immediately making
him rush back to his wagon for some
medicine
with anne's help john regains his
strength after the medicine is injected
into him
not only does she rinse him off but she
also welcomes him into her home
while john rests and brings the wagon
and sees pictures of john and a woman
who might have been his wife
for days john is bedridden but and makes
sure that he receives the care he needs
one night she hears her poor visitor
have a nightmare and she comes to his
room to comfort him as he sleeps
john grows weaker by the day and then
sympathetically looks at him by the
bedside
she sincerely prays for john's recovery
and desperately wishes for him to stay
with her
remarkably john's health starts to
improve slowly becoming part of anne's
rural life
both of them humbly talk about life
before the apocalypse while and shows a
picture album of her family
she is left alone after the rest of her
family members set a journey to find
other survivors
but they never returned and especially
misses her younger brother
who she was extremely close to so she
shows john a picture of him
as an engineer john theorizes that
anne's farm is sheltered from
radioactive contaminants because of the
rocky hillsides and favorable weather
patterns
after their conversation and gets up and
hugs john a gesture she has not done in
such a long time
the following day jon comes out of the
house to watch and work around the farm
noticing an old tractor according to
anne she ran out of gas last year and
has not used it ever since
john instructs and how to pump gas
manually from an abandoned station
nearby with his knowledge about machines
she follows his instructions written on
paper and eventually succeeds in
acquiring sufficient gas
making the long disused tractor finally
run at dinner
john notices how much of a devout
christian anne is
he talks about his journey before and
found him saying that he lived a mile
underground
john left because he could not take
being in there anymore without the sight
of the sun in the sky
then and asked about john's wife after
seeing the pictures in his wagon
but he says that it is just a girl from
the past that night
both of them feel a growing sense of
attraction toward each other but
thoughts of it are dismissed
john and anne spend the next day by the
pond where she offers him fresh fish
something he has never had in a long
time while john enjoys his sumptuous
meal
and recalls the last winter when she
almost froze and starved to death
because of her broken generator she
could not stock up on fish and other
food inside the fridge
upon hearing she has a generator john
offers to fix it
hoping that it would help them store
more food while fixing it
john believes that they could utilize
the contaminated waterfall as a source
of hydroelectric power
it could work with a water will
constructed from the church's planks and
woods
which means that the holy building
should be demolished to get the parts
and becomes uncomfortable with his
proposal claiming that her father built
it and preached there every sunday
the building is more than just a
structure to her as it holds deep
sentimental value
after persuading in a couple of times
john eventually decides not to pursue
the project
for the following days they work
together around the farm to supply food
and other resources
at this point they both see flaws in
each other rooted in their work ethic
and spiritual beliefs
in the abandoned mini-mart and sees john
drunk with empty bottles of beer
surrounding him
john mocks her for consuming all of the
sweet stuff on the shelves
but not the beers on the fridge despite
this and helps him get up and brings him
home to rest
as she removes his dirty clothes jon
becomes agitated and shouts at her for
helping him too much
he repeatedly says that he does not need
her help at all even pinning her against
the wall
anne's timid nature is shaken as she has
never interacted with behavior like
john's in the past
making her walk out of the room
fearfully realizing that he is at fault
john offers his sincere apology in the
morning to which anne accepts willingly
they continue to work together as if
nothing happened the night before
at dinner anne surprises jon with a
bottle of wine which they share
after a couple of glasses both of them
become tipsy and dance together in the
living room
the moment becomes gradually intimate
which leads to their very first kiss
john and ann head upstairs and arrive on
the verge of engaging in a sensual
relationship
but he hesitates in his opinion being
intimate with anne will completely
change things between them
but it does not change the fact that he
likes her he also adds that they need
more time to know each other before
cuddling her in the same bed
on a regular day of monitoring the farm
and notices changes in her traps and
pharaoh being more excited
her dog runs out of her sight and as she
follows it a third survivor
caleb reveals himself apparently
caleb has already befriended pharaoh as
he has already spent some days on the
farm
he asks anne for a glass of water
bringing her to the house but is taken
aback by john holding a rifle
and hardly runs to calm him down and
introduces the two men to each other
when the commotion subsides caleb shares
that he walked 50 miles from a mine in
search of food and other resources
he is welcomed on the farm but john says
he has to camp outside for the time
being
as he picks some radiation along the way
however anne's kind nature could not
stand leaving anyone outside while she
enjoys the comforts of her home
so she invites caleb inside all three of
them share a meal and tell stories about
the horrors of being in the apocalypse
john says that before arriving at the
farm he stumbled upon a sickly teenager
covered in dirt
he attempted to take care of the boy but
his body was just too weak
the boy begged him to kill him out of
mercy an act he obliged to do
on the other hand caleb also shares a
traumatic experience inside the mind he
was trapped in
during his first week he saw multiple
men kill each other because of their
dreadful conditions
after the meal and gives caleb a tour
around the house as jon feels a sense of
jealousy
jon keeps reminding anne to be aware of
kayla because they do not know anything
about him just yet and he may be a
dangerous person
they get into a heated argument about
john's mindset about some issues and
they arrive at the topic of the boy he
killed
jon sits with anne at the table and
reveals that the boy he killed is anne's
lost brother
lost for words and could not even look
him in the eye just fighting her tears
over the shocking news
the following day john and caleb decide
to go turkey hunting within the area
while they walk around caleb emphasizes
his spiritual connection with anne and
suggests a light-hearted wager for her
affection
which jon does not take well compared to
jon's serious and logical personality
caleb is more laid-back and easygoing
both of them walk to the nearby
waterfall
where john explains the cancelled
project about the water wheel that could
be a power source
over dinner kayla brings up the water
wool project to the table
which john feels uncomfortable with and
explains that the building holds a place
in her heart
but she is now open to the idea of
rebuilding something else
taken aback by her response john tells
him that she does not have to push
through with the water will if she isn't
ready yet
pressured by caleb's remarks and gives a
go signal on tearing the church down for
materials
the next day work commences on the water
will project as they gather wood from
the sacred building
slowly the building becomes a structure
until there is nothing left of it but a
distant memory of anne's father while
working on it ann and caleb start having
a bond between them
which john immediately notices they
start exchanging glances that hint at
their attraction toward each other
as the project progresses so does their
closeness
after the demolition and caleb walk in
the woods and end up in the nearby cave
they talk about their shared faith in
the christian religion claiming that it
is the only thing that gets them going
as they arrive back on site john has
already made a lot of progress in
constructing the water wheel
the simple structure gives them more
hope that life in this post-apocalyptic
world could improve in the simplest ways
that night john requests to talk with
anne in private claiming that he has to
tell her something important
perceiving the attraction between anne
and caleb he awkwardly gives
her consent to be in a relationship with
caleb however and finds it odd for him
to say that
as she has her consciousness to know to
pursue whatever and whoever she wants
when she defends herself john makes a
discriminating remark and says that he
won't stand in her way to explore with
someone else
his words of unsolicited advice thrown
off making her walk out of the room
all three of them spend the next days
constructing the water while around the
contaminated waterfall
after remarkable progress they hold a
celebratory dinner as a big break from
their accomplishment
after a couple of drinks they decide to
plunge into the pond
where they continue to have fun when it
becomes too cold they decide to return
to the house and end the night
not long after john tearfully expresses
his love for anne
which she finds difficult to believe she
holds hands with the intoxicated john on
the way home and guides him as he passes
out in bed
and here's caleb still awake in his room
from the hallway so she walks toward it
hoping that he would notice caleb
expectedly opens the door and welcomes
her inside before they make love after
days of exchanging flirty looks
at daybreak the tension grows in the
once peaceful household because of the
unofficial love triangle
as caleb makes his way to the porch to
sit with anne john immediately gets an
idea of what happened the night before
later john and caleb finish the water
wheel structure and move the flume into
place above the waterfall
while john is in charge of keeping the
ropes in place caleb does the more risky
job of securing the flume in place
finally the project turns out smooth and
successful
making them smile and forget their
rivalry for a moment
cramped in a hazmat suit caleb slips
during the rope assisted climb
but john luckily pulls him up just in
time just as john gathers the ropes for
safe keeping
caleb slips on the mossy surface once
more but john pulls him again
however jon stops the pull and the two
men intently lock eyes while caleb still
teeters on the edge of the cliff
right after john returns to the house
alone waren apologizes for making their
relationship unclear
john cuts her in the middle of the
conversation and says that caleb decided
to leave and travel south
clearly anne is taken aback but she does
not waste any second and runs outside
hoping that caleb is still around
without sight of him
anne lapses into complete shock and
silence meanwhile
jon stands on the edge of the cliff
where caleb used to be and checks the
depth of the waterfall
after days of dwelling on caleb's sudden
disappearance and finds that the
electricity in the house has been
restored
she happily runs outside and finds her
beloved organ in the barn
where she plays at him shortly after jon
enters and listens while clapping his
hands as if a sense of guilt overtakes
him
with the title alone biblical concepts
are relevant to the film
though the post-apocalyptic setting
portrays the end of the world
it is also comparable to the beginning
where only one man and woman walk the
earth
like in the garden of eden and gave into
temptation and sought pleasure
who is caleb the reason behind caleb's
disappearance is not disclosed
whether he died or really left only jon
knows
the relationship between the two men
parallels the biblical story of abel and
kane
whose rivalry ended in a tragedy
subscribe to watch more videos like this
turn on notifications
and leave a like it really helps the
channel out thank you for watching